page_welcome.md, before:

####We are in another changing season for this iteration of the Ohio Five's Digital Scholarship initiative, generously funded by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation.####

#####In the first year under this grant, Ohio Five Digital Scholarship focused on building relationships and then establishing and testing the workflows under which projects would grow. In its second year, there was a shift to active project development and, where possible, plugging the efforts of #oh5ds into the larger landscapes of DS in the Liberal Arts, Digital Humanities, and Digital Scholarship writ large. As we reached a halfway point we also began to look toward the future.#####


###DEPRECATED TEXT####
Entering the second year of the Ohio Five's Digital Scholarship Initiative, we have a number of projects under way ranging from curricular collections for very local classroom use to large-scale, multi-institutional collaborations. We're happy to have these underway and are happily accepting new submissions of ideas via our Initial Interest Form. Once you've answered those four easy questions, Jacob Heil, the Ohio Five's Mellon Digital Scholar, will put together a small planning team and schedule a real-life project meeting (because white boards and conferences rooms are tools for digital project development too!). This meeting will be a springboard into the development of your short proposal--see the guidelines here--which will pass through a local committee on its way to turning into the project plan for your great idea!

We're dedicated to building project teams and finding collaborators in all of the places that we can: in libraries, for starters, but also in educational technology and info tech offices, in the halls of different scholarly disciplines, and across institutions. We know, though, that successful collaborations grow naturally from chance (and not-so-chance) interactions. In our second year, then, we're focused on ensuring that we know of one another's existence. As a consortium that is spread over hundreds of square miles, we know this is a particular kind of challenge, but we'll be seeking ways to spread news of consortial projects and to create opportunities for those productive, human (even if virtual) interactions.

Check back in and poke around from time to time. You'll be able to keep track of what's new <a title="Our Latest Posts" href="http://digitalscholarship.ohio5.org/blog/">on our blog</a>, and you'll (soon) be able to learn about our consortial projects on a projects page (set to launch late October 2014). If you'd like to be kept in the know, subscribe to Eight Bits, our newsletter, set to drop on the first of every other month starting (belatedly) in October.

Commit message:

new draft of welcome page

page_welcome.md, after:

####We are in another changing season for this iteration of the Ohio Five's Digital Scholarship initiative, generously funded by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation.####

#####In the first year under this grant, Ohio Five Digital Scholarship focused on building relationships and then establishing and testing the workflows under which projects would grow. In its second year, there was a shift to active project development and, where possible, plugging the efforts of #oh5ds into the larger landscapes of DS in the Liberal Arts, Digital Humanities, and Digital Scholarship writ large. As we reached a halfway point we also began to look toward the future.

And so we arrive here in this moment. While we will continue to [encourage interested faculty to let us know](http://digitalscholarship.ohio5.org/initial-interest-form/) that they have an idea, and while we will continue to build up our [expanding managerie of projects](http://digitalscholarship.ohio5.org/oh5_projects/), we also want to cultivate a sense of ***consortial identity*** for our digital scholarship community. A chief concern is that we don't always know what's happening around the Ohio Five, yet we want to learn from and build upon our colleagues' great work. Innovative digital pedagogies can be siloed in their own campus contexts, much less within a consortium separated by hundreds of miles; as we move forward in the near term we want to be deliberate about making connections and, importantly, helping others make connections with one another. 

So let's have our conversations out loud and in public. Have an event? Announce it on the [OH5 Digital Scholarship listserv](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/oh5digitalscholarship). Post it on [the Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/ohiofiveDS/). With these resources (and a resurgent [8-bits](http://us9.campaign-archive2.com/home/?u=70ff65e31bcfd9306a77d2327&id=fc1185fb48)) you can stay up to date or have a wider conversation about how this work is getting done locally, consortially, nationally, and internationally. 

Again: Welcome. #####

~JAH




###DEPRECATED TEXT####
Entering the second year of the Ohio Five's Digital Scholarship Initiative, we have a number of projects under way ranging from curricular collections for very local classroom use to large-scale, multi-institutional collaborations. We're happy to have these underway and are happily accepting new submissions of ideas via our Initial Interest Form. Once you've answered those four easy questions, Jacob Heil, the Ohio Five's Mellon Digital Scholar, will put together a small planning team and schedule a real-life project meeting (because white boards and conferences rooms are tools for digital project development too!). This meeting will be a springboard into the development of your short proposal--see the guidelines here--which will pass through a local committee on its way to turning into the project plan for your great idea!

We're dedicated to building project teams and finding collaborators in all of the places that we can: in libraries, for starters, but also in educational technology and info tech offices, in the halls of different scholarly disciplines, and across institutions. We know, though, that successful collaborations grow naturally from chance (and not-so-chance) interactions. In our second year, then, we're focused on ensuring that we know of one another's existence. As a consortium that is spread over hundreds of square miles, we know this is a particular kind of challenge, but we'll be seeking ways to spread news of consortial projects and to create opportunities for those productive, human (even if virtual) interactions.

Check back in and poke around from time to time. You'll be able to keep track of what's new <a title="Our Latest Posts" href="http://digitalscholarship.ohio5.org/blog/">on our blog</a>, and you'll (soon) be able to learn about our consortial projects on a projects page (set to launch late October 2014). If you'd like to be kept in the know, subscribe to Eight Bits, our newsletter, set to drop on the first of every other month starting (belatedly) in October.
