---
title: Students Visualize Art and Poetry of Ciudad Juarez in OWU Neatline Project
layout: post
permalink: owu-poetry-ciudad-juarez	

---

On Wednesday night, 9 DEC 2015, students from Professor Juan Rojas's course on Urban Art and Poetry in Ciudad Juarez. Each student read a poem from <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Sangre-Blood-artist-Alejandro-Narv%C3%A1ez/dp/0989062333" target="_blank">Sangre Mia / Blood of Mine</a>, a collection of poems about and by poets from Juarez, Mexico; they also spoke about the political and social contexts of these poems. Many of the students spoke about the ability of poetry to communicate the essence of the place. 

David Soliday spoke about the technical backbone of the project. And also about the value of visualizing spatial data for additional modes of discovery. 

Professor Jen Rathman (Ashland U) is integrating the material into her course. She'll use these poems and the map to teach the poems. And there are others at Skidmore who might be able collaborate across Universities. Early conversations at this point, but later phase could be larger community of contributors. 

I'm reminded -- As juan points out over and again the importance of the students doing the work -- that this is the great boon of the Digital Liberal Arts: this is about the process of the building, not about the mapping per se. This presentation might in other contexts be about the map, the interface as the display of information about the poems. This presentation and the assignment itself, for the purposes of the grant, is at it's core about the teaching, the assignment, the technology as the medium for the pedagogical enterprise. 

BEN: Were there challenges that changed the assignment? ANS: We weren't able to complete the urban art part of it because they wouldn't have learned enough information about it. There's just too much information and you don't want to sacrifice content for the technological aspects. 

Each Friday was a workshop for the MWF course, while M and M were more traditional literature courses. So the activities were fully integrated into the course. 

Students had to hold two different eras in their mind at the same time. They were doing historical research on 15th Century literature and work on C20 rtechnologies. I would say that they also have to hold multiple different kinds of literacies in their brains in the same time: Spanish, English, and digital technologies. 

Had two RAs working on the project. 

BEN: Are there things about the DIGITAL that facilitate this course and the content? And the subject matter? ANS: Juan says that with the poems located on a geospatial map they can see the proximity of these two border cities, how they're in conversation with one another. Being able to see the two cities side by side really changes the way in which they see the poetry (and art) of the city. 

