_drafts/160118_facebook2.md, before:

OH5 Digital Scholarship [is on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/ohiofiveDS/)! 

I consider myself lucky to have had opportunities to speak with a great many people working in digital scholarship and the way in which I talk about Ohio Five DS has evolved. In the early days of the grant, way back in 2013, I was talking about our efforts to build large-scale, consortial collaborations on digital projects. We have had some success with this. John Krygier's (OWU) project, [Engaging Columbus](http://engagingcolumbus.owu.edu/), included faculty from Denison and the Ohio State University, and Denison's [Baptists in Burma project](http://baptistsinburma.midwesternmissionaries.org/), a partnership with [Axis Maps](http://www.axismaps.com/) and a handful of groups with archival material on Baptist missionaries, shows the promise of becoming a consortial discovery tool for OH5 library collections. The latter of these examples is growing only through a very deliberate effort of a handful of librarians and technologists at the moment. It is, by its design, an experiment in collaboration at the level of superstructure designed to see what such a collavoration looks like. In the case of the former, however, Engaging Columbus grew out of pre-established relationships with, for example, the GIS offices for the city of Columbus and faculty from area institutions. In other words, it grew organically, and if the goal of the grant is to learn how to build collaborative projects *in the absence of grant funds*, then we must think about how to encourage this kind of organic growth. 

The metaphor of "organic" project development has been a go-to for me. I stress that figurative construction for all it's worth, from "cultivating the soil" to "planting the seeds" to "building up the trellis" onto which digital tendrils can cling as a growing culture climbs ever upward. See what I mean? But it's useful, even if it's cliché, and I intend to keep it handy when I talk about the kind of work I think we're doing here in the Ohio Five. Also, it's a little more pleasant than the alternative I like to kick around: an *infectious* digital culture. In truth, this is a slightly more apt metaphor for the way that the community grows: project ideas spread through the air; with each new iteration, the strain takes on the traits most conducive to sustainability; the spread of ~~infections~~ ideas is exacerbated by physical proximity. [It's science](https://www.newscientist.com/article/dn27067-zombie-simulator-lets-you-plan-your-own-apocalypse/).

The idea here is one that's simple and long-standing: more we know about one another's work the more we know about possibilities, partnerships, and potential pitfalls. With digital projects, we might be able to see our own research questions mapped onto a new framework. As we manipulate that framework to accomoodate a different set of disciplinary concerns, the resulting push and pull tests the boundaries of that work, our teaching, and the collaborations that have been hiding in plain sight in our communities. We have seen this happen on campuses here, where (e.g.) [Juan Rojas's Neatline project](http://ciudadjuarezartandpoetry.org/neatline/fullscreen/main) grew out of seeing his OWU colleague David Eastman's presentation [of his own](http://www.mappingthemartyrs.org/neatline/show/map). At Wooster, text encoding projects in Foreign Languages and Literatures have informed a student's Independent Study; text encoding is likely to factor into an historian's project on campus as well. This kind of "infection" results, as I've mentioned before, from having conversations out loud and in public on our campuses about the kinds of digital scholarship with which we're engaging. 

*** note to self for further drafting *** 

Organic projects influence because we knew what we were up to.

A shift in the way I think: not about building (planning, staging, budgeting, etc) large projects, but about building up the community out of which those projecs can grow. 

So FB

Commit message:

updating done with rough sketch

_drafts/160118_facebook2.md, after:

OH5 Digital Scholarship [is on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/ohiofiveDS/)! 

I consider myself lucky to have had opportunities to speak with a great many people working in digital scholarship and the way in which I talk about Ohio Five DS has evolved. In the early days of the grant, way back in 2013, I was talking about our efforts to build large-scale, consortial collaborations on digital projects. We have had some success with this. John Krygier's (OWU) project, [Engaging Columbus](http://engagingcolumbus.owu.edu/), included faculty from Denison and the Ohio State University, and Denison's [Baptists in Burma project](http://baptistsinburma.midwesternmissionaries.org/), a partnership with [Axis Maps](http://www.axismaps.com/) and a handful of groups with archival material on Baptist missionaries, shows the promise of becoming a consortial discovery tool for OH5 library collections. The latter of these examples is growing only through a very deliberate effort of a handful of librarians and technologists at the moment. It is, by its design, an experiment in collaboration at the level of superstructure designed to see what such a collavoration looks like. In the case of the former, however, Engaging Columbus grew out of pre-established relationships with, for example, the GIS offices for the city of Columbus and faculty from area institutions. In other words, it grew organically, and if the goal of the grant is to learn how to build collaborative projects *in the absence of grant funds*, then we must think about how to encourage this kind of organic growth. 

By and large, though, truly "organic" consortial digital projects are hard to come by. I want to work my way   

The metaphor of "organic" project development has been a go-to for me. I stress that figurative construction for all it's worth, from "cultivating the soil" to "planting the seeds" to "building up the trellis" onto which digital tendrils can cling as a growing culture climbs ever upward. See what I mean? But it's useful, even if it's cliché, and I intend to keep it handy when I talk about the kind of work I think we're doing here in the Ohio Five. Also, it's a little more pleasant than the alternative I like to kick around: an *infectious* digital culture. In truth, this is a slightly more apt metaphor for the way that the community grows: project ideas spread through the air; with each new iteration, the strain takes on the traits most conducive to sustainability; the spread of ~~infections~~ ideas is exacerbated by physical proximity. [It's science](https://www.newscientist.com/article/dn27067-zombie-simulator-lets-you-plan-your-own-apocalypse/).

The idea here is one that's simple and long-standing: more we know about one another's work the more we know about possibilities, partnerships, and potential pitfalls. With digital projects, we might be able to see our own research questions mapped onto a new framework. As we manipulate that framework to accomoodate a different set of disciplinary concerns, the resulting push and pull tests the boundaries of that work, our teaching, and the collaborations that have been hiding in plain sight in our communities. We have seen this happen on campuses here, where (e.g.) [Juan Rojas's Neatline project](http://ciudadjuarezartandpoetry.org/neatline/fullscreen/main) grew out of seeing his OWU colleague David Eastman's presentation [of his own](http://www.mappingthemartyrs.org/neatline/show/map). At Wooster, text encoding projects in Foreign Languages and Literatures have informed a student's Independent Study; text encoding is likely to factor into an historian's project on campus as well. This kind of "infection" results, as I've mentioned before, from having conversations out loud and in public on our campuses about the kinds of digital scholarship with which we're engaging. 

Like a zombic contagian, the spread of ideas takes time and effort to overcome distances. *Unlike a zombic contagian* we *want* our ideas to proliferate, *at least* among the Five Colleges. So how to we spread the word? On the one hand, there's someone like me: a central figure (or entity) connecting the various conversations. (I realize that, in my metaphor, I am the carrier. I'll allow it.) On the other hand, there are virtual ways of distributing information, and so we use [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/ohiofiveDS/), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23oh5ds&src=typd), [Google Groups](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/oh5digitalscholarship), and (when I'm able to cobble it together) our [News Bulletin via Mail Chimp](http://us9.campaign-archive1.com/?u=70ff65e31bcfd9306a77d2327&id=dbe49b9687). However, when building up commmunities of practice it's not enough to think of our social media platforms simply as ways to push information to our constiuencies. This is getting at the "why" of the "why Facebook" that I promised in [that previous post](http://digitalscholarship.ohio5.org/2016/01/ohio-five-digital-scholarship-is-on-facebook/): for us, if we are to overcome distance and build up a robust, consortial digital culture, we need to think of these platforms as virtual hubs of our social networking. Having become the murmured undercurrent of so much conversation, the term itself -- "social network" -- is dangerously close to losing its meaning, but if we can reinvigorate it with the activity of networking then platforms can be just this -- platforms -- from which our efforts spring. Less bulletin board, more water cooler. Even Facebook reconceived their "wall," after all, replacing with the news feed and the timeline.

As the zombie/infection metaphor breaks down (alas) I return to my tried-and-true analogy to locally-sourced, organically-grown digital cultures. And maybe ours is more like a [mycorrhizal network](http://www.bbc.com/earth/story/20141111-plants-have-a-hidden-internet) after all. Yes, we build the structures up through our platforms and we sew the seeds as we post ideas and events, but it's the constant exchange of information within the network that sustains the entire ecosystem. Or I should say that we mustn't forget that it's not *just* about the systems we put in place -- the workflows, the funding mechanisms, the Facebook feeds -- but about the ways in which they are knit together by the communities of digital scholars working in and around them.



to retunr to the organic metaphor, rhizome?
*** note to self for further drafting *** 

Organic projects influence because we knew what we were up to.

A shift in the way I think: not about building (planning, staging, budgeting, etc) large projects, but about building up the community out of which those projecs can grow. 

So FB
