160204_henthorne.md

### Tess's Presentation for IS

There are a number of possible stories here, from our perspective. It's not the IS itself -- its arguments, its readings -- it's about the process for us. And how is this process pertinent to the grant even though it's not directly funded by the grant? 

That's the thing, isn't it? This is the unexpected benefit of the work that we're doing on the grant. If part of the purpose of the grant (and I think it *is* part of the purpose) is to build up the culture, then working directly with a student on a research project is a way to do that. Students' interests spark conversation on campus, they're why we're here, so if they want to work on digital projects then we have to start having that conversation and thinking about how that works into our institutions' structures. Also, because I can't devote a ton of my time to the project (I have projects that have to take priority) I can only advise, and so we've had to figure out how to do the project -- how to learn TEI together -- on the fly, but collaboratively.

Also important is that we've seen Tess have to make the same kinds of arguments that junior faculty have to make in validating their digital work. We have had to help her think about the work she's doing and to help her articulate the value of the markup *in the absence of* any human-readable, visible product. There was a question today about making a database available to the public that makes use of the critical lens through which Tess is reading *Montel*. But Tess isn't making a database. She isn't making a website. She isn't building a network graph of relationships in the text. She's encoding a text and she's making it available. She's preserving that text, and she's preserving her scholarship. Why do we have to have a visible product (a tool or a website) for a digital project to have merit? I suppose this is true everywhere: it's just the cost of doing business that we have to have some forward-facing thing to point to. 